# Contemporary Issues In Data

Welcome! Your writing assignment will be in this file.  See [the instructions](./instructions.md) for more details.

# AI's Divisive Future
With the recent emergence of AI the public is still largely divided on whether it will do more good or bad. I would like to dive deeper by looking at two articles that share different viewpoints on this new technology and present my takeaways. I hope you can gain some sort of new viewpoint from my analysis. 

## Article 1

In The Guardian's "Five ways AI could improve the world: ‘We can cure all diseases, stabilise our climate, halt poverty’" (https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2023/jul/06/ai-artificial-intelligence-world-diseases-climate-scenarios-experts), author Steve Rose presents us with five inticing reasons that convince us about AI's potential to lead us towards a better world. He starts off by noting that with the rise in intelligence, we will be far better equipped in curing "cancer and heart disease". This is a very bold claim to make as such cures have evaded researchers for decades, but would help treat millions of patients worldwide. The beauty of AI is that it is continuously growing and expanding its knowledge, making it an invaluable aid to researchers and scientists working towards bettering humanity. Staying in the field of healthcare, AI will be immensely beneficial in improving existing drug. There are many drugs on the market which are effective, but come with a high likelihood of unwelcomed side effects. AI can help us overcome this by allowing us to develop drugs with less side effects while providing pharamcists and doctors with an expansive amount of information that can lead them to making more well-informed prescriptions. These are just some of the ways that AI will inevitably impact the field of healthcare. This is certainly a plus, as AI may lead people to living healthier and longer lives.

Continuing on, Steve Rose discusses how AI can help us combat climate change. As an avid climate activist, the ongoing situation and response is quite frightening. The climate crisis is worsening by the minute, and the inaction of politicians and policymakers is further aggravating the situation. Prompt action is required or else it will be too late. Steve Rose highlights how AI can be an incredibly helpful tool in fighting climate change. Firstly, AI can quickly transform raw data into useful information. There is an abundant amount of data relating to climate change and it is important that we dissect it to better understand what we can do to change the situation. AI's ability to provide recommendations and information regarding the climate will be of great aid to policymakers, climate activists, politicians, and most importantly the planet. The next way AI can be helpful is by helping us create forecasts. When I state forecasts, the initial image that may come to your mind is a financial forecast. Financial forecasts are incredibly important tools for firms seeking to capitalize on money-making opportunities.Similarly, forecasts pertaining to the climate crisis can help us be better prepared and informed of upcoming events that are likely to occur. By analyzing trends and historical data, AI can certainly play a valuable role in us creating a better future. It will help us work more efficiently in battling climate change which is especially important as we work against the clock.

## Article 2

In the USA Today's "AI, automation could kill your job sooner than thought. How COVID sped things up." (https://www.usatoday.com/story/money/2023/07/26/automation-destroy-jobs-faster-pandemic/70464006007/) author Paul Davidson discusses the issue at the front of everyone's mind: Will AI take my job? Much of the public's fear of AI lies in how it will automate many "low skill" jobs or repetitive tasks. This is a very logical concern to have as the current economic environment is already looking quite gloomy. The pandemic is largely responsible for this as many businesses were forced to shut down causing massive unemployment and economic losses. During the pandemic many "low skill" workers were put out of work and tried developing new skillsets to attain positions which were more financially incetivizing as well as "AI-proof". Following the pandemic many business owners have decided to automate their businesses wherever possible. I'm most certain that you may have walked into a store where there was a self-checkout system installed rather than a physical cashier. This is one example of AI automation and how it is disrupting the economic landscape. With the decline in number of businesses, less "low skill" job openings, and the rise of AI, the future for "low skill" workers seems to be quite grim. I think the solution is rather simple, and will be promptly instated. We are aware that the American job market has already experienced substantial turbulence in the past. For example, many companies in the past have decided to relocate much of their manufacturing overseas to reduce costs. Likewise, many companies are now trying to automate parts of their businesses to reduce expenses and increase their profits. The solution is simple, this being that more government regulation is neccessary. Due to AI being a recent phenomenon, I expect that the government will impose regulations that minimize the impact that AI has on the job market. After all, if AI does replace millions of jobs, the country will certainly head into a dark period. 

Continuing on, I would like to highlight something I had mentioned when discussing the first article. AI is praised upon for its ability to analyze large sets of data and present key information as well as create forecasts. This is a highly valuable skill that will continue to be in demand. However, AI's ability to do these things raises the argument that "low skill" jobs are not the only ones at jeopardy of replacement, but also some "high skill" jobs. Jobs for humans in data analysis and business analysis will inevitably be less available as AI continues to improve. This will leave many "high skill" employees without jobs. AI has cast a grey shadow over the job market, and has caused many people to question their ability to earn in the long term. I think that this teaches a valuable lesson about technology in general. It is important that we take any new technological innovation with a grain of salt. At the end of the day, technology is merely meant to be an aid to humans, not a replacement. AI has shown that it has a disruptive side that will affect individuals from a wide variety of backgrounds. We as a world must be more conscious of the ethical and economical implications that come along with the implementation of AI. We must not reach a point where we let AI or any technological innovation lead to us living more unfufilling and stressful lives. 
